# 1.5: Learn about Currying and Higher Order Functions

## Higher Order Functions
A higher order function is a function where its input and/or output is a function.

For example, the function \\( f \\) is taking function \\( x \\) as its input:
\\[ \lambda f.\lambda x. f(f x) \\]

However, in this example, the function \\( x \\) returns the function \\( y \\):
\\[ \lambda x.(\lambda y. x + y) \\]

## Currying
It's important to remember that all functions in lambda calculus can only take in a single argument.

\\[ \lambda x.E \\]

So what happens when we need a function which takes in more than a single parameter?
We can use a concept called currying to simulate the idea of multiple parameters.

Using currying, we can convert a function which takes in multiple parameters to 
a function which takes in a single parameter and returns another function accepting any further arguments.
This process is repeated until we have a series of functions which take in a single parameter.

For example, consider we have some lambda function which needs to take in two parameters, \\(x \\) and \\(y \\):

\\[ \lambda (x, y). E \\]

We know however, that we cannot write the calculation like this due to the limitation of lambda functions only taking a in a single parameter.
Using currying, we can re-write this function as:

\\[ \lambda x.(\lambda y. E) \\]

Now, we have two functions, each with a single input parameter, representitive of our original equation.

## Partial Application

Let's take a look at another example, say we have a function \\(f \\), that takes in \\(x \\) and \\(y \\) and returns their sum.

\\[ f(x, y) = x+y \\]

In lambda calculus, this would be re-written as:

\\[ \lambda x.(\lambda y. (x+y)) \\]

This example shows us a new concept called partial application. 
In the example above, nested within \\( \lambda x \\) is the function: 

\\[ \lambda y.(x+y) \\]

Looking at this function by itself, we run into the issue of \\( x \\) not being defined yet.
This is where partial application comes into play, instead of this being an invalid 
function due to us not knowing the value of \\(x \\), we instead return a function which takes in x
that's partially applied where all occurences of \\( y \\) are filled.

Let's look at a concrete example of this, converting \\(\lambda x.(\lambda y. (x+y)) \\) to code.

```haskell
# x = 4, y = 5
(\x -> (\ y -> x+y)) 4 5

# y is first partially applied, and returns itself like so
(\x -> (\ y -> x + 5)) 4

# then x is applied
(\x -> (\ y -> 4 + 5))

# where then the final value is calculated
9 :: Integer
```

{{#quiz ../../quizzes/1-5.toml}}
