# 4.1: Learn about Eager vs Lazy Evaluation

## Eager vs Lazy Evaluation
Eager evaluation is when a calculation is performed as soon as possible. Lazy
evaluation on the other hand will only compute the calculation if it's actually
required.

For example, when we call `(4/0)` in the code below, we won't get a DivideByZero
error as the expression is never needed and therefore never computed.

```haskell
let foo a b = b
foo (4/0) (7/3)
```

F# is not lazy by default and will therefore calculate things eagerly unless
otherwise specified.

## F# Sequence
A sequence is a logical series of elements all of the same type. Sequences are
useful as they are evaluated lazily and therefore typically used for large, ordered
collections of data when you don't necessarily expect to use all the elements.

Individual sequence elements are computed only as required typically leading to
better performance than a list in situations as described above.

Sequences are represented by the `seq<'T>` type which is an alias for `IEnumerable<T>`.
As a side effect of this, any .NET type that implements `IEnumerable` are able to
be passed into functions that expect a sequence.

**Programming Exercise**: Convert the following C# foreach loop into an equivalent 
while loop that explicitly calls the `IEnumerable.GetEnumerator` method of the 
collection. 

Note: The code-block below can be edited.

```fsharp,editable
var list = new System.Collections.Generic.List { 1, 3, 6};

foreach (var i in list)
    System.Console.WriteLine(i);
```
