# 2.7: Learn about F# Functions

## Function types
In F#, functions are treated as true first-class citizens, this means they are treated
just as any other value would be.

For example, say we have some function which provides the successor of \\( x \\):

```fsharp
// succ :: int -> int
let succ x = x + 1
```

it's function type would be `int -> int`, a function that takes in an integer, 
and returns an integer.

So what happens to a function when it has more than one argument, how does its 
type look then? Let's take a look at the `add()` function.

```fsharp
// add :: int -> int -> int
let add x y = x + y
```

If we recall back, a function with multiple arguments is really a series of functions
each taking in a single parameter. Here we have the function `add()` which takes in
one integer argument and returns a function that takes in one integer argument
which returns an integer as its result.

The concept of currying is important in functional languages such as F# because 
it allow us to partially fill functions.

Say I try to call `add()` but only pass in one parameter, not two. In an imperative
language, this would usually crash the program, however, in F#, this will actually
just return a new function with all occurences of the first parameter filled.

```fsharp
// add :: int -> int -> int
let add x y = x + y

// this will return a function that looks similar to the one defined below
add 5

// :: int -> int
fun y = x + y
```

## Lambda functions
As previously seen, a lambda function can be defined in F# using the `fun` keyword.

```fsharp
// Named function
let add x y = x + y

// Anonymous / Lambda function
fun x y -> x + y

// Using lambda functions, our named function can be re-written as
let add = fun x y -> x + y
```

## Function Composition
F# uses the `>>` symbol as the function composition operator. This operator 
allows us to apply functions in sequence. 

In the example below we define two functions `foo()` and `bar()` and, using the 
composition operator, apply `foo()` then `bar()` to the value x.

```fsharp
let foo = fun x -> x + 5
let bar = fun y -> y * 2

let x = 5

(foo >> bar) x
```

In the example above `foo >> bar` is equivalent to `fun x -> bar(foo x)`.

## Recursion
Recursion in F# is defined via the `rec` keyword.

```fsharp
let rec fib n =
    match n with
    | 0 | 1 -> n
    | n -> fib (n-1) + fib (n-2)
```

{{#quiz ../../quizzes/2-7.toml}}
